    Previous research has indicated that sorghums biological nitrification
inhibition (BNI) trait may be a potential mechanism for reducing nitrate
leaching by suppressing soil nitrifying microbes (Ghosh et al., 2024, Subbarao
et al., 2013). However, modeling studies (Hartman et al., 2022) suggest that the
timing and magnitude of BNI effects alone may not explain large reductions in N
losses under field conditions. In our study, a possible explanation is the
timing of rainfall events in relation to fertilizer timing. In 2024, the study
site's region experienced significant rainfall immedietly after corn
fertilization, resulting in excess soil moisture and drainage, likely
contributing to the high observed nitrate leaching in tile water. In contrast,
the fertilization of sorghum was late in 2024, during a drier portion of the
year, resulting in little to no tile-draingage and therefore limited nitrogen
leached compared to corn.  
    Much of the existing research on nitrogen loss mitigation using cereal rye
cover crops has focused on traditional corn-soy based cropping systems,
where winter rye has consistently been shown to reduce nitrate leaching by
30-50 % (Waring et al., 2020; Thapa, Mirsky, Tully, 2018; Johnson et al.,
1998). However, there is a notable lack of field-based studies evaluating
these benefits in sorghum-based bioenergy systems, despite physiological and
management differences that may affect nitrogen cycling and cover crop
interactions. Regardless of cropping system, cereal rye's effectiveness stems
from its active growth during the fall and spring, periods when the main crop is
absent, young, or dormant and not taking up nitrogen. During these times, rye's
living root system scavenges excess soil nitrogen, reducing potential losses
(Waring et al., 2020). Consistent with this mechanism, our results demonstrated
that sorghum plots with cereal rye cover crops showed a reduction in nitrate
losses, approximately 85-90% lower than sorghum-only plots, particularly during
the psring drainage period when leaching risk is highest. 
